# API Version 2

Version 2 (`v2`) of the Guild Wars 2 API was introduced to offer more
flexibility over the previous version and introduces a more unified and
structured approach for accessing resources.


## Query Types

Generally, API endpoints are structured in two different ways: There are
"blob"-style which simply return all data and _indexed endpoints_ which can be
queried for indexed data points.

Indexed endpoints support different types of queries that differ in supported
query parameters. The response of an indexed endpoint depends on the query type
used in a request. Common query types are:

- **querying IDs** to get a full list of available IDs (e.g. `/v2/items`),
- **querying by ID** to get a single data point by ID (e.g. `/v2/items?id={id}`),
- **querying by IDs** to get the data points by a set of IDs (e.g. `/v2/items?ids={ids; ","-separated}`), and
- **querying by page** to get a _page_ of data points (`/v2/items?page={index}&page_size={size}`).

### Querying by IDs

Some endpoints support querying data by IDs. Data points provided by such
endpoints have unique IDs that can be used to retrieve them. Querying these
endpoints without additional query parameters (e.g. `/v2/items`) will return a
list of all available IDs.

The `id` query parameter can be used to query a single data point (e.g. `/v2/items?id={id}`).
The `ids` query parameter takes a comma-separated list of IDs and allows
querying for multiple data points at once (e.g. `/v2/items?ids={ids}`). The
amount of data points that can be requested in one request is limited to `200`.

Some endpoints support a special version of this query type that can be used to
retrieve all available data points at once. This is achieved by passing `all` as
value for the `ids` query parameter (e.g. `/v2/items?ids=all`).

### Querying by Page

Some endpoints support querying data points by page. Data points in such an
endpoint are ordered by some arbitrary but consistent comparison. A page of data
points can be though of as an offset chunk of these ordered data points.

The maximum page size is limited to `200`. (This is consistent with the maximum
amount of data points that can be retrieved when querying by IDs.)

When querying by page, the response contains a few additional non-standard
headers that provide additional information:

- The value of `X-Page-Size` is equal to the requested amount of data points per
  page,
- the value of `X-Page-Total` is the total number of available pages for the
  current page size,
- the value of `X-Result-Count` is the number of data points returned by the response, and
- the value of `X-Result-Total` is the total number of available data points.

!!! warning
    
    If supported by the desired endpoint, it is generally recommended to query
    the IDs explicitly and to query by IDs afterward. This approach avoids
    inconsistencies that can potentially occur if the page bounds are changed in
    between requests. (This can happen if, for example, a data point is added.)


## Authentication

Version 2 added support for endpoints that provide account-specific data. To
query one of the available resources, an _API key_ must be used to authenticate
the request.

An API key can be provided using the [Authorization header](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Authorization):

    $ curl -H "Authorization: Bearer <API key>" https://api.guildwars2.com/v2/tokeninfo

Alternatively, it is possible to use the `access_token` query parameter instead:

    $ curl https://api.guildwars2.com/v2/tokeninfo?access_token=<API key>

!!! note

    Passing the API key via header is recommended to prevent the key from
    leaking. While URLs are encrypted when using HTTPS, query parameters are
    more likely to be accidentally exposed by logging.

!!! note

    The Guild Wars 2 API does not currently configure CORS correctly for the
    `Authorization` header. To prevent requests from being blocked by safety
    measures, web applications should use query-based authentication instead.

### Permissions

When creating an API key, it is possible to select a set of permissions for the
key. Authenticated endpoints may require different permissions. This provides
players with a mechanism to limit which resources an application can access.

!!! warning

    Some endpoints may return additional data depending the permissions of the
    used API key. In this case, the permissions are not strictly required for
    the endpoint and using keys without them results in no error.


## Schema Versions

A schema version can be provided using the `X-Schema-Version` header:

    $ curl -H "X-Schema-Version: <Schema version>" https://api.guildwars2.com/v2/tokeninfo

Alternatively, it is possible to use the `v` query parameter instead:

    $ curl https://api.guildwars2.com/v2/tokeninfo?v=<Schema version>

!!! note

    Passing a schema version via query parameter is recommended to aid in
    debugging and to simplify sharing of URLs.

A list of available schema versions can be found in version 2's [meta endpoint](https://api.guildwars2.com/v2.json?v=latest)
along with a short description of each change.

!!! note

    Querying the latest schema version is possible by passing `latest` as value
    for the version. However, this should be avoided as this may lead to
    unexpected response format changes in future updates.